Bevy 0.19 release note pass (#24176)
bevyengine/bevy: _release-content/release-notes/partial_bindless_metal.md

pull_requests: [23436]
---

> Cross-platform game engines must constantly navigate real differences in platform APIs.

Reviewer: My instinct is that this release note is a bit too long. It's both highly technical and not applicable to all Bevy users. However, I don't think you can really cut anything, as all of the explanation is necessary to follow along.

tldr, this is good and rendering is just difficult.

Author: Yeah, this was initially much shorter but on re-read I realized it didn't make *any* sense to non-rendering engineers.

Bevy's goal is to let users write a single application and ship it everywhere —

> Windows, Mac, Linux, mobile — with confidence it will just work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Windows, Mac, Linux, mobile — with confidence that it will just work.
```

That's a tough promise to live up to: rendering complex scenes on Mac and iOS was markedly slower.

Bindless rendering is how modern engines handle scenes with many different materials efficiently: shaders index into shared pools of textures and buffers rather than rebinding them per draw call.
Bindless is not just a performance optimization — it's how modern renderers are structured.

Metal (Apple's GPU API) supports texture binding arrays but not buffer binding arrays.

> Bevy required both to enable bindless, excluding Metal entirely — even for materials that never use buffer arrays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bevy required both to enable bindless, which previously excluded Metal entirely — even for materials that never use buffer arrays.
```
